Middleware docs (#5625)
vuestorefront/vue-storefront: packages/core/docs/advanced/server-middleware.md

# Server middleware

> The server middleware is a part of Vue Storefront networking. That's the way of making connections with the eCommerce platform and also a solution to reduce bundle size, number of calls, credentials sharing, extensibility handling, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server middleware is a part of Vue Storefront networking. That's the way of making connections with the eCommerce platforms and a way of reducing bundle size, number of calls, credentials sharing, extensibility handling, and more.
```

## What is Vue Storefront Middleware and why we need it?

> The Vue Storefront middleware is an express.js proxy that taking the requests from the front-end translates them to a certain integration and call-related API-client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vue Storefront middleware is an Express proxy that takes the requests from the front-end, translates them to a given integration, and calls related API-client.
```

We have implemented it for a variety of reasons.

> First of all, it allows us to provide a prover way of extensibility - As a developer, you have control of the requests and the responses in the given platform and you can write an extension to add something extra in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, it allows extensibility - As a developer, you have control of the requests and the responses in the given platform and you can write an extension to add something extra in your project.
```

> A front-end application sometimes needs an additional API endpoint - that's also possible since you have a server written in express.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A front-end application sometimes needs an additional API endpoint - that's also possible since you have a server written in Express.
```

> A front-end application sometimes needs an additional API endpoint - that's also possible since you have a server written in express.js.

Author: will remove as we haven't implemented that yet

All credentials for your platform are stored only on the backend side, there are no shared keys in the browser.

> ## How it works (in a nutshell)

Reviewer 2: this part is really hard to understand, even with a prior knowledge. I suppose it will be much harder for newcomers.

> The way of how it works represents the following diagram:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way it works represents the following diagram:
```

<center>

>   <img src="../images/middleware-diagram.jpg" alt="Middleware Diagram" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img src="../images/middleware-diagram.jpg" alt="API Middleware Diagram" />
```

</center>

> In the Vue Storefront platform, you always have a few components: Core, UI, Middleware, and integration part: composables, API-client (and sometimes UI). As we mentioned before, API-client is being called only on the middleware, but you still can access it on the front-end side - how is that possible?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Vue Storefront platform, you always have a few components: Core, UI, Middleware, and integration part: composables, API-client (and sometimes UI). As we mentioned before, API-client is being called only on the middleware, but you still can access it on the front-end side, but how is this possible?
```

> When you access an API-client on the front-end side, you are accessing actually a stub, instead of a real API-client instance. This stub makes a call to the middleware (Remote Procedure Call), and ask for loading a specific integration, and executing specific function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you access an API-client on the front-end side, you are actually accessing a stub instead of the real API-client instance. This stub makes a call to the middleware (Remote Procedure Call) and requests a specific integration to execute a specific function.
```

Middleware recognizes this by the tag name of integration and the function name that needs to be called.

> When the middleware has loaded an API-client (integration) it proceeds to create a connection and make a requested API-client function call. Within this whole process, all of the extensions are being executed. Once the middleware has finished its job, the response backs to the front-end side as if it was transferred using a direct connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the middleware has loaded an API-client (integration) it creates a connection and makes a requested API-client function call. Within this whole process, all of the extensions are being executed. Once the middleware has finished its job, the response is sent to the front-end as if it was transferred using a direct connection.
```

> When the middleware has loaded an API-client (integration) it proceeds to create a connection and make a requested API-client function call. Within this whole process, all of the extensions are being executed. Once the middleware has finished its job, the response backs to the front-end side as if it was transferred using a direct connection.

Reviewer 2: tihis part could probably be rephrased into one sentence, it's slightly a "maslo maslane"

## Configuration

> When it comes to configuration, you only need to tell middleware what the integrations you have along with their credentials. There is a dedicated config to do that called `middleware.config.js` that contains a section with integrations definition (`integrations`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes to configuration, you only need to tell the middleware what integrations you have along with their credentials. There is a dedicated configuration file named `middleware.config.js` that contains a section with integrations definition (`integrations`).
```

> When it comes to configuration, you only need to tell middleware what the integrations you have along with their credentials. There is a dedicated config to do that called `middleware.config.js` that contains a section with integrations definition (`integrations`).

Reviewer 2: you're mixing configurationa and setup here imho

+ avoid phrases like "you only need to"
+ "tell middleware" seems like a wrong choice of words here

Each entry under this section starts with a tag name of given integration, and contains an object with the following fields:

- `location` - points to the package of the API-client, related to given integration (server entry point)
- `configuration` - contains a configuration of given integration, such as credentials and others
- `extensions` - a function that returns a extensions (jump to the next section)
- `customQueries` - section that contains custom queries (graphql only)

> ```js

Reviewer 2: shouldn't explaination of the code be below the code?

module.exports = {
  integrations: {
    <TAG NAME>: {
      location: '@<integration-package>/server',
      configuration: {}
      extensions: (extensions) => extensions,
      customQeries: {}
    }
  }
};
```

> ## Extending Middleware

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is about extending integrations, not middleware as a whole.

> Middleware allows you to inject into the lifecycle of the entire network flow, starting with configuring a connection and ending with a final response. To use those things, we created an extension feature.

Reviewer 2: small diagram would be useful (just with how the extension works)

> You can define as many extensions as you want. Remember they are always correlated with a specyfic API-client (integration). How they look like? Each extension has the followin structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define as many extensions as you want. Remember they are always correlated with a specific API-client (integration). How do they look like? Each extension has the following structure:
```

```js
const extension = {
  name: 'extension-name',
  extendApiMethods: {
    getProduct: async () => { /* ... */ }
  },
  hooks: (req, res) => {
    return {
      beforeCreate: ({ configuration }) => configuration,
      afterCreate: ({ configuration }) => configuration,
      beforeCall: ({ configuration, callName, args }) => args,
      afterCall: ({ configuration, callName, args, response }) => response
    }
  }
}
```

- `name` - defines the unique name of an extension
- `extendApiMethods` - overides the original functions from API-client
- `hooks` - defines lifecycle hooks of API-client
- `hooks:beforeCreate` - called before API-client creates a connection, takes the given configuration as an argument, and must return the configuration. In this place, you can attach something else to the configuration or even change it.
- `hooks:afterCreate` - Similar to the previous one, but called after the connection has been created. It also returns a configuration and you can change it.

> - `hooks:beforeCall` - Triggered before each API-client function. We have access to the configuration, function name, and its arguments. This function must return the arguments and based on the input parameters we can change it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `hooks:beforeCall` - called before each API-client function. We have access to the configuration, function name, and its arguments. This function must return the arguments and based on the input parameters we can change it.
```

> - `hooks:afterCall` - Triggered after each API-client function.We have access to the configuration, function name, and its arguments. This function must return the response and based on the input parameters we can attach something to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `hooks:afterCall` - called after each API-client function.We have access to the configuration, function name, and its arguments. This function must return the response and based on the input parameters we can attach something to it.
```

To register a created extension, we have to add it do the middleware config file:

```js
module.exports = {
  integrations: {
    <TAG NAME>: {
      location: '@<integration-package>/server',
      configuration: {}
      extensions: (extensions) => [
        ...extensions,
        {
          name: 'our-extension'
          hooks: () => { /* ... */}
        }
      ],
      customQeries: {}
    }
  }
};
```

## Separating middleware from Nuxt

> By default, Vue Storefront middleware is running within the Nuxt.js process. Sometimes there is a need to disconnect it from the app, and run it as a separate instance, and independent process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Vue Storefront middleware is running within the Nuxt.js process. Sometimes there is a need to disconnect it from the app and run it as a separate and independent instance (process).
```

> Since is the real express.js application, you can do this, by creating file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since it's just an Express application, you can do this, by creating a `middleware.js` file:
```

# Server middleware

## What is Vue Storefront Middleware and why we need it?

The Vue Storefront middleware is an express.js proxy that taking the requests from the front-end translates them to a certain integration and call-related API-client.

We have implemented it for a variety of reasons.

> First of all, it allows us to provide a prover way of extensibility - As a developer, you have control of the requests and the responses in the given platform with [extensions](/advanced/server-middleware.html#extending-middleware))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First of all, it allows us to provide a proven way of extensibility. As a developer, you have control of the requests and responses in the given platform with [extensions](/advanced/server-middleware.html#extending-middleware))
```

Performance optimizations - since we moved the networking layer to the server-side, the final code shipped to the browser is way smaller, which impacts the initial loading time. 

## How it works (in a nutshell)

The way of how it works represents the following diagram:

<center>
  <img src="../images/middleware-diagram.jpg" alt="Middleware Diagram" />
</center>

The API-client is being called only on the middleware, but you still can access it on the front-end side - how is that possible?

When you access an API-client on the front-end side, you are accessing actually a stub, instead of a real API-client instance. This stub makes a call to the middleware ([Remote Procedure Call](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remote_procedure_call)), and asks for loading a specific integration and executing a function you are asking for.

For example, the following code:
```js
context.$ct.getProduct({ id 1})
```

Generates the request to our middleware:
- `POST / api/ct/getProduct` - a http call, where `ct` is a tag name of integation and `getProduct` is the name of a function needs to be called
- `http body` - the body of HTTP request we are sending array of arguments

> Middleware reads tag name of integration and the function name that needs to be called, executes it, and send response back to the browser as if it was transferred using a direct connection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Middleware reads tag name of integration and the function name that needs to be called, executes it, and sends a response back to the browser as if it was transferred using a direct connection.
```

  integrations: {
    <TAG NAME>: {
      location: '@<integration-package>/server',
      configuration: {}
      extensions: (extensions) => extensions,
      customQeries: {}
    }
  }
};
```

## Extending Integrations

<center>
  <img src="../images/middleware-extensions.jpg" alt="Middleware Extensions" />
</center>

Middleware allows you to inject into the lifecycle of the entire network flow, starting with configuring a connection and ending with a final response. To use those things, we created an extension feature.

You can define as many extensions as you want. Remember they are always correlated with a specyfic API-client (integration). How they look like? Each extension has the followin structure:

```js
const extension = {
  name: 'extension-name',
  extendApiMethods: {
    getProduct: async () => { /* ... */ }
  },
  hooks: (req, res) => {
    return {
      beforeCreate: ({ configuration }) => configuration,
      afterCreate: ({ configuration }) => configuration,
      beforeCall: ({ configuration, callName, args }) => args,
      afterCall: ({ configuration, callName, args, response }) => response
    }
  }
}
```

- `name` - defines the unique name of an extension

> - `extendApiMethods` - overides the original functions from API-client

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `extendApiMethods` - overrides the original functions from API-client
```

- `hooks` - defines lifecycle hooks of API-client

> - `hooks:beforeCreate` - called before API-client creates a connection, takes the given configuration as an argument, and must return the configuration. In this place, you can attach something else to the configuration or even change it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `hooks:beforeCreate` - called before API-client creates a connection, takes the given configuration as an argument, and must return the configuration. Here you can attach something else to the configuration or even change it.
```

To register a created extension, we have to add it do the middleware config file:

```js
module.exports = {
  integrations: {
    <TAG NAME>: {
      location: '@<integration-package>/server',
      configuration: {}
      extensions: (extensions) => [
        ...extensions,
        {
          name: 'our-extension'
          hooks: () => { /* ... */}
        }
      ],
      customQeries: {}
    }
  }
};
```

## Separating middleware from Nuxt

By default, Vue Storefront middleware is running within the Nuxt.js process. Sometimes there is a need to disconnect it from the app, and run it as a separate instance, and independent process.

Since is the real express.js application, you can do this, by creating file:

```js
const { createServer } = require('@vue-storefront/middleware');
const { integrations } = require('./middleware.config');

const app = createServer({ integrations });

app.listen(8181, () => {
  console.log('Middleware started');
});
```

> Now, when you run this using node, your middleware should work separately.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now, when you run this using Node, your middleware should work separately.
```

> Additionally, you need to remove the middleware module entry from the nuxt.config.js and configure the domain, where your middleware is settled.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, you need to remove the middleware module entry from the `nuxt.config.js` and configure the domain, where your middleware is settled.
```
